7.0.0 (#2958)
getsentry/sentry-java: CHANGELOG.md

# Changelog

## Unreleased

Version 7 of the Sentry Android/Java SDK brings a variety of features and fixes. The most notable changes are:
- Bumping `minSdk` level to 19 (Android 4.4)
- The SDK will now listen to connectivity changes and try to re-upload cached events when internet connection is re-established additionally to uploading events on app restart 
- `Sentry.getSpan` now returns the root transaction, which should improve the span hierarchy and make it leaner
- Multiple improvements to reduce probability of the SDK causing ANRs
- New `sentry-okhttp` artifact is unbundled from Android and can be used in pure JVM-only apps 

> **Note: The v7 version of the Android/Java SDK requires a self-hosted version of Sentry 22.12.0 or higher. If you are using a version of [self-hosted Sentry](https://develop.sentry.dev/self-hosted/) (aka onpremise) older than `22.12.0` then you will need to [upgrade](https://develop.sentry.dev/self-hosted/releases/). If you're using `sentry.io` no action needed.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sentry Backend Version Compatibility

This SDK version is compatible with Sentry backend versions `22.12.0` or higher. If you are using an older version of [self-hosted Sentry](https://develop.sentry.dev/self-hosted/) (aka onpremise), you will need to [upgrade](https://develop.sentry.dev/self-hosted/releases/). If you're using `sentry.io`, no action is required.**
```

> **Note: The v7 version of the Android/Java SDK requires a self-hosted version of Sentry 22.12.0 or higher. If you are using a version of [self-hosted Sentry](https://develop.sentry.dev/self-hosted/) (aka onpremise) older than `22.12.0` then you will need to [upgrade](https://develop.sentry.dev/self-hosted/releases/). If you're using `sentry.io` no action needed.**

Author: but it's there https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/pull/8583/files#diff-b93112a821860a4f10b65176fb86746457eb559a0f54ef66883e08dc73879f67R49

> **Note: The v7 version of the Android/Java SDK requires a self-hosted version of Sentry 22.12.0 or higher. If you are using a version of [self-hosted Sentry](https://develop.sentry.dev/self-hosted/) (aka onpremise) older than `22.12.0` then you will need to [upgrade](https://develop.sentry.dev/self-hosted/releases/). If you're using `sentry.io` no action needed.**

Reviewer: ah true, I searched for onprem - my bad :)

```kotlin
sentry {
  autoInstallation {
    sentryVersion.set("7.0.0")
  }
}
```

Similarly, if you have a Sentry SDK (e.g. `sentry-android-core`) dependency on one of your Gradle modules and you're updating it to 7.+, make sure the Gradle plugin is at 4.+ or specify the SDK version as shown in the snippet above.

## Breaking Changes

- Bump min API to 19 ([#2883](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/pull/2883))
- If you're using `sentry-kotlin-extensions`, it requires `kotlinx-coroutines-core` version `1.6.1` or higher now ([#2838](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/pull/2838))
- Move enableNdk from SentryOptions to SentryAndroidOptions ([#2793](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/pull/2793))
- Apollo v2 BeforeSpanCallback now allows returning null ([#2890](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/pull/2890))
- `SentryOkHttpUtils` was removed from public API as it's been exposed by mistake ([#3005](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/pull/3005))

## Behavioural Changes

- Android only: `Sentry.getSpan()` returns the root span/transaction instead of the latest span ([#2855](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/pull/2855))

> - Capture failed HTTP requests by default ([#2794](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/pull/2794))

Reviewer: `m`: I feel like we should mention that this can cause increased error volume generated and that ppl can use config options (https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/android/integrations/okhttp#http-client-errors, https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/android/integrations/apollo3#graphql-client-errors) to configure which errors should be reported

Author: yeah, good idea, I will update. 

While on it, I realized we didn't flip the flag for the apollo integration, I guess we just missed that. I will also enable it for apollo then
